README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img src="docs/images/logo.png" width="70%" align="center">
</p>

## rvesimulator

RVE simulation via [ABAQUS](https://www.3ds.com/products-services/simulia/products/abaqus/) secondary development.

---

[**Documentation**](https://bessagroup.github.io/rvesimulator/)
| [**Installation**](https://bessagroup.github.io/rvesimulator/get_started.html)
| [**GitHub**](https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator)
| [**Tutorials**](https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator/tree/main/tutorials)

---

### **Summary**

The **rvesimulator** aims to provide a user-friendly, automated Python-based framework conducting Representative Volume Element (RVE) simulation via powerful Finite Element Method (FEM) software Abaqus. By utilizing this repository, large amount of reliable FEM data-set generation is possible with RVEs encompassing materials from elastic to plastic composites .

**rvesimulator** provides:

1.  A cross-platform function to run arbitrary Python-Abaqus script without graphical user interface (GUI), it offers users a convenience way to run their unique scripts
2.  Python-Abaqus scripts to simulate RVE with different design of experiments including various micro-structures, material laws, and loading;
3.  Benchmarks of running prevalent RVEs covering elastic, hyper-elastic, plastic materials are provided, which illustrates the general pipeline (preprocess, execution, and postprocess) of the developed framework

This idea of the repo is shown by the following figures:

<p align="center">
    <img src="docs/images/rvesimulator.svg" width="70%" align="center">
</p>

---

### **State of need**

In order to use this repo, one needs first to know basics of ABAQUS secondary development, and basic under standing of design of experiment (DoE) so that one can design their own RVEs.

---

### **Authorship**

**Author**:

- Jiaxiang Yi ([J.Yi@tudelft.nl](mailto:J.Yi@tudelft.nl))

**Author affiliation**:

- Delft University of Technology

---

### Get started

**Installation**

(1). git clone the repo to your local machine

```
git clone https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator.git
```

(2). go to the local folder where you cloned the repo, and pip install it with editable mode

```
pip install --verbose --no-build-isolation --editable .
```

(3). install dependencies

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

<!-- **Contents**

Part I: microstructure generation

Part II: rve simulation -->

---

### **Community Support**

Now everything is under developing, if you have any question, please contact to the developer.

### **Credits**

### **License**

Copyright 2020, Jiaxiang Yi

All rights reserved.

rvesimulator is a free and open-source software published under a MIT License.

Commit message:

initial fix for some issues

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img src="docs/images/logo.png" width="70%" align="center">
</p>

## rvesimulator

RVE simulation via [ABAQUS](https://www.3ds.com/products-services/simulia/products/abaqus/) secondary development.

---

[**Documentation**](https://bessagroup.github.io/rvesimulator/)
| [**Installation**](https://bessagroup.github.io/rvesimulator/get_started.html)
| [**GitHub**](https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator)
| [**Tutorials**](https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator/tree/main/tutorials)

---

### **Summary**

The **rvesimulator** aims to provide a user-friendly, automated Python-based framework conducting Representative Volume Element (RVE) simulation via powerful Finite Element Method (FEM) software Abaqus. By utilizing this repository, large amount of reliable FEM data-set generation is possible with RVEs encompassing materials from elastic to plastic composites .

**rvesimulator** provides:

1.  A cross-platform function to run arbitrary Python-Abaqus script without graphical user interface (GUI), it offers users a convenience way to run their unique scripts
2.  Python-Abaqus scripts to simulate RVE with different design of experiments including various micro-structures, material laws, and loading;
3.  Benchmarks of running prevalent RVEs covering elastic, hyper-elastic, plastic materials are provided, which illustrates the general pipeline (preprocess, execution, and postprocess) of the developed framework

This idea of the repo is shown by the following figures:

<p align="center">
    <img src="docs/images/rvesimulator.svg" width="70%" align="center">
</p>

---

### **State of need**

[rvesimulator](https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator) is an open-source Python-based framework for RVE simulation via [ABAQUS](https://www.3ds.com/products-services/simulia/products/abaqus/) secondary development. It is noted that ABAQUS 2021 is used in the development. In order to conduct RVE simulation via [rvesimulator](https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator) , basic knowledge of [ABAQUS](https://www.3ds.com/products-services/simulia/products/abaqus/) usage, especially Python scripting, is required. Meanwhile, basic understanding of RVE simulation is also required. Several examples are provided in the [Tutorials](https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator/tree/main/tutorials) where users can learn the basic usage of [rvesimulator](https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator). If the user wants to develop their own RVE simulation, the [Documentation](https://bessagroup.github.io/rvesimulator/) provides a detailed description on how to adapt the framework to their own needs.

Consider leaving a star if you think [rvesimulator](https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator) is useful for the research community!

---

### **Authorship & Citation**

**Author**:

- Jiaxiang Yi ([J.Yi@tudelft.nl](mailto:J.Yi@tudelft.nl))

**Author affiliation**:

- Delft University of Technology

---

If you use [rvesimulator](https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator), please cite the following [paper](https://openreview.net/forum?id=511z1DGjPi):

```
    @inproceedings{
    yi2023rvesimulator,
    title={rvesimulator: An automated representative volume element simulator for data-driven material discovery},
    author={Jiaxiang Yi and Miguel Anibal Bessa},
    booktitle={AI for Accelerated Materials Design - NeurIPS 2023 Workshop},
    year={2023},
    url={https://openreview.net/forum?id=511z1DGjPi}
    }
```

---

### Get started

**Installation**

(1). git clone the repo to your local machine

```
git clone https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator.git
```

(2). go to the local folder where you cloned the repo, and pip install it with editable mode

```
pip install --verbose --no-build-isolation --editable .
```

(3). install dependencies

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

<!-- **Contents**

Part I: microstructure generation

Part II: rve simulation -->

---

### **Community Support**

Now the [rvesimulator](https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator) is still under development, if you have any questions, please feel free to contact [Jiaxiang Yi](mailto:J.Yi@tudelf.nl), or open an issue on the [GitHub](https://github.com/bessagroup/rvesimulator/issues) issues page.

<!-- ### **Credits** -->

### **License**

Copyright 2022, Jiaxiang Yi

All rights reserved.

rvesimulator is a free and open-source software published under a MIT License.
